README.md, before:

The 6TiSCH Simulator
====================

Brought to you by:

* Thomas Watteyne (watteyne@eecs.berkeley.edu)
* Kazushi Muraoka (k-muraoka@eecs.berkeley.edu)
* Nicola Accettura (nicola.accettura@eecs.berkeley.edu)
* Xavier Vilajosana (xvilajosana@eecs.berkeley.edu)
* Mališa Vučinić (malisa.vucinic@inria.fr)
* Esteban Municio (esteban.municio@uantwerpen.be)
* Glenn Daneels (glenn.daneels@uantwerpen.be)

You are on the development branch, containing latest and hottest updates to the simulator, following the work in the 6TiSCH standardization group.
This comes at a price that it may not be most thoroughly tested, and bugs are to be expected.
If you encounter some, please report them with a detailed bug report containing the parameters you used to run the simulation, through the Bitbucket issue tracker.

If you are looking for a more stable, but outdated version, please check out the master branch.

Scope
-----

6TiSCH is an active IETF standardization working group which defines mechanisms to build and maintain communication schedules in tomorrow's Internet of (Important) Things. This simulator allows you to measure the performance of those different mechanisms under different conditions.

What is simulated:

* protocols
    * IEEE802.15.4e-2012 TSCH (http://standards.ieee.org/getieee802/download/802.15.4e-2012.pdf)
    * RPL (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6550) with downstream traffic using source routing
    * 6top (https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-6tisch-6top-protocol-09)
    * Minimal Scheduling Function (https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-chang-6tisch-msf-00)
* join process with initial synchronization to the first received Enhanced Beacon.
* the "Pister-hack" propagation model with collisions
* the energy consumption model taken from
    * [A Realistic Energy Consumption Model for TSCH Networks](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6627960&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fiel7%2F7361%2F4427201%2F06627960.pdf%3Farnumber%3D6627960). Xavier Vilajosana, Qin Wang, Fabien Chraim, Thomas Watteyne, Tengfei Chang, Kris Pister. IEEE Sensors, Vol. 14, No. 2, February 2014.


More about 6TiSCH:

| what             | where                                                               |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| charter          | http://tools.ietf.org/wg/6tisch/charters                            |
| data tracker     | http://tools.ietf.org/wg/6tisch/                                    |
| mailing list     | http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/6tisch/current/maillist.html   |
| source           | https://bitbucket.org/6tisch/                                       |

Gallery
-------

|  |  |  |
|--|--|--|
| ![](https://bytebucket.org/6tisch/simulator/raw/master/examples/run_0_topology.png) | ![](https://bytebucket.org/6tisch/simulator/raw/master/examples/run_0_timelines.png) | ![](https://bytebucket.org/6tisch/simulator/raw/master/examples/gui.png) |

Installation
------------

* Install Python 2.7
* Clone or download this repository
* To plot the graphs, you need Matplotlib and scipy. On Windows, Anaconda (http://continuum.io/downloads) is a good on-stop-shop.

Getting Started
---------------

1. Download the code (in this case, cloning `develop` branch): 
   ```
   $ git clone -b develop https://bitbucket.org/6tisch/simulator.git
   ```
2. Move down to `bin` directory: 
   ```
   $ cd simulator/bin
   ```
3. Execute runSimOneCPU.py:
   ```
   $ python runSimOneCPU.py
   ```
    * You'll have raw output data under `bin/simData` directory.
    * You can specify configuration parameters such as slot length and application packet interval if you want. `$ python runSimOneCPU.py --help` shows available options.
4. Execute plotStuff.py to see the results:
   ```
   $ python plotStuff.py
   ```
    * You’ll have charts derived from the data under `bin/simData` directory.
    * You need to define your simulation scenarios and identify necessary parameter sets in order to have meaningful results or charts.

Code Organization
-----------------

* `bin/`: the scripts for you to run
* `SimEngine/`: the simulator
    * `Mote.py`: Models a 6TiSCH mote running the different standards listed above.
    * `Propagation.py`: Wireless propagation model.
    * `SimEngine.py`: Event-driven simulation engine at the core of this simulator.
    * `SimSettings.py`: Data store for all simulation settings.
    * `SimStats.py`: Periodically collects statistics and writes those to a file.
    * `Topology.py`: creates a topology of the motes in the network.
* `SimGui/`: the graphical user interface to the simulator

Issues and bugs / Development Workflow
---------------

When you find any issue or bug, please open an issue at [the issue
tracker](https://bitbucket.org/6tisch/simulator/issues). In the issue
ticket, it'd be nice to have expected behaviors of the simulator, a
way to reproduce the issue, and the branch name or commit hash of the
code you are using.

If you come up with a solution for the issue, that's great. We
encourage you to send a Pull-Request!

The basic development workflow looks like:

1. open a issue
2. send a PR with your proposal, which refers to relevant a issue or issues
3. merge your proposal
4. close the issue

To close relevant issues, you could add a command into your commit
message. For available commands and the command format, please refer
to [Resolve issues automatically when users push
code](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/resolve-issues-automatically-when-users-push-code-221451126.html).

Commit message:

#46 add coding style to readme

README.md, after:

The 6TiSCH Simulator
====================

Brought to you by:

* Thomas Watteyne (watteyne@eecs.berkeley.edu)
* Kazushi Muraoka (k-muraoka@eecs.berkeley.edu)
* Nicola Accettura (nicola.accettura@eecs.berkeley.edu)
* Xavier Vilajosana (xvilajosana@eecs.berkeley.edu)
* Mališa Vučinić (malisa.vucinic@inria.fr)
* Esteban Municio (esteban.municio@uantwerpen.be)
* Glenn Daneels (glenn.daneels@uantwerpen.be)

You are on the development branch, containing latest and hottest updates to the simulator, following the work in the 6TiSCH standardization group.
This comes at a price that it may not be most thoroughly tested, and bugs are to be expected.
If you encounter some, please report them with a detailed bug report containing the parameters you used to run the simulation, through the Bitbucket issue tracker.

If you are looking for a more stable, but outdated version, please check out the master branch.

Scope
-----

6TiSCH is an active IETF standardization working group which defines mechanisms to build and maintain communication schedules in tomorrow's Internet of (Important) Things. This simulator allows you to measure the performance of those different mechanisms under different conditions.

What is simulated:

* protocols
    * IEEE802.15.4e-2012 TSCH (http://standards.ieee.org/getieee802/download/802.15.4e-2012.pdf)
    * RPL (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6550) with downstream traffic using source routing
    * 6top (https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-6tisch-6top-protocol-09)
    * Minimal Scheduling Function (https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-chang-6tisch-msf-00)
* join process with initial synchronization to the first received Enhanced Beacon.
* the "Pister-hack" propagation model with collisions
* the energy consumption model taken from
    * [A Realistic Energy Consumption Model for TSCH Networks](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/login.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6627960&url=http%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fiel7%2F7361%2F4427201%2F06627960.pdf%3Farnumber%3D6627960). Xavier Vilajosana, Qin Wang, Fabien Chraim, Thomas Watteyne, Tengfei Chang, Kris Pister. IEEE Sensors, Vol. 14, No. 2, February 2014.


More about 6TiSCH:

| what             | where                                                               |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| charter          | http://tools.ietf.org/wg/6tisch/charters                            |
| data tracker     | http://tools.ietf.org/wg/6tisch/                                    |
| mailing list     | http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/6tisch/current/maillist.html   |
| source           | https://bitbucket.org/6tisch/                                       |

Gallery
-------

|  |  |  |
|--|--|--|
| ![](https://bytebucket.org/6tisch/simulator/raw/master/examples/run_0_topology.png) | ![](https://bytebucket.org/6tisch/simulator/raw/master/examples/run_0_timelines.png) | ![](https://bytebucket.org/6tisch/simulator/raw/master/examples/gui.png) |

Installation
------------

* Install Python 2.7
* Clone or download this repository
* To plot the graphs, you need Matplotlib and scipy. On Windows, Anaconda (http://continuum.io/downloads) is a good on-stop-shop.

Getting Started
---------------

1. Download the code (in this case, cloning `develop` branch):
   ```
   $ git clone -b develop https://bitbucket.org/6tisch/simulator.git
   ```
2. Move down to `bin` directory:
   ```
   $ cd simulator/bin
   ```
3. Execute runSimOneCPU.py:
   ```
   $ python runSimOneCPU.py
   ```
    * You'll have raw output data under `bin/simData` directory.
    * You can specify configuration parameters such as slot length and application packet interval if you want. `$ python runSimOneCPU.py --help` shows available options.
4. Execute plotStuff.py to see the results:
   ```
   $ python plotStuff.py
   ```
    * You’ll have charts derived from the data under `bin/simData` directory.
    * You need to define your simulation scenarios and identify necessary parameter sets in order to have meaningful results or charts.

Code Organization
-----------------

* `bin/`: the scripts for you to run
* `SimEngine/`: the simulator
    * `Mote.py`: Models a 6TiSCH mote running the different standards listed above.
    * `Propagation.py`: Wireless propagation model.
    * `SimEngine.py`: Event-driven simulation engine at the core of this simulator.
    * `SimSettings.py`: Data store for all simulation settings.
    * `SimStats.py`: Periodically collects statistics and writes those to a file.
    * `Topology.py`: creates a topology of the motes in the network.
* `SimGui/`: the graphical user interface to the simulator

Issues and bugs / Development Workflow
---------------

When you find any issue or bug, please open an issue at [the issue
tracker](https://bitbucket.org/6tisch/simulator/issues). In the issue
ticket, it'd be nice to have expected behaviors of the simulator, a
way to reproduce the issue, and the branch name or commit hash of the
code you are using.

If you come up with a solution for the issue, that's great. We
encourage you to send a Pull-Request!

The basic development workflow looks like:

1. open a issue
2. send a PR with your proposal, which refers to relevant a issue or issues
3. merge your proposal
4. close the issue

To close relevant issues, you could add a command into your commit
message. For available commands and the command format, please refer
to [Resolve issues automatically when users push
code](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/resolve-issues-automatically-when-users-push-code-221451126.html).

Code Style
---------------

The code should follow the PEP8 coding style: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/

The main rules are:
* Spaces are the preferred indentation method (4 spaces)
* For triple-quoted strings, always use double quote characters to be consistent with the docstring convention in PEP 257.
* Use spaces around operators: `x == 4` instead of `x==4`
* Use spaces after comma: `def example(x, y)` instead of `def example(x,y)`
* Function and variable names should be lower case
